# BlogUP - Post what you like!

This is a Spring Boot project template that serves as a starting point for building web applications using the Spring Boot framework.

## Table of Contents

- [Project Overview](#project-overview)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Project Overview


Key features of the project template include:
- Spring MVC architecture for handling web requests
- Spring Data JPA for database access
- Thymeleaf integration for server-side rendering of views
- Pre-configured database settings
- Sample application with controllers, services, and views

## Installation

1. Clone the repository or download the source code.
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/TomNgo03/BlogUP.git

2. Make sure you have Java Development Kit (JDK) installed on your machine. You can download it from the official Oracle website or use a package manager for your operating system.

3. Build the project using Maven.
    ```bash
    mvn clean install

4. Perform any additional setup steps required, such as setting up a database or configuring environment variables.

## Usage
- To run the project, follow these steps:

1. Make sure you have Java Development Kit (JDK) installed on your machine.

2. Execute the JAR file generated by Maven.

    ```bash
    java -jar target/myproject.jar
3. Open a web browser and visit http://localhost:8080 to access the application.

## Configuration
- The project requires certain configurations to ensure proper functioning. Here are some key configuration points you need to consider:

1. Configuration: The project utilizes a database for storing user information, entities, and other data. By default, it is configured to use an embedded H2 database. If you prefer to use a different database, such as MySQL or PostgreSQL, you need to update the database settings in the application.properties file. Set the appropriate database URL, username, and password to establish the connection.

2. Security Configuration: User authentication and authorization are crucial for your application. The project includes basic security configurations using Spring Security. You may need to modify the security settings based on your requirements. For example, you can customize the login page, configure access rules for different endpoints, or integrate additional security features such as OAuth2 authentication.

3. File Storage Configuration: If your application allows users to upload and store files, you need to configure the file storage settings. By default, the project uses a local file storage mechanism. You can specify the file upload directory by updating the application.properties file. Alternatively, you can integrate cloud storage services like Amazon S3 or Google Cloud Storage by modifying the storage configurations accordingly.

4. Email Configuration: If your application requires sending emails, such as user registration confirmation or password reset emails, you need to configure the email settings. Update the application.properties file with the appropriate SMTP server details, including host, port, username, password, and other necessary configurations.

5. Logging Configuration: The project utilizes the default logging configuration provided by Spring Boot. You can customize the logging levels, log file location, and other logging-related settings in the application.properties file. Additionally, you can integrate additional logging frameworks or appenders based on your logging requirements.

6. External Service Integration: If your project integrates with external services, such as third-party APIs or messaging services, you need to provide the necessary configurations. For example, if you're using an SMS gateway for sending notifications, update the relevant settings in the application.properties file with the required API credentials.

- Ensure that you review and update the relevant configuration files (application.properties, application-dev.properties, etc.) based on your specific project requirements. It's essential to keep sensitive information like database credentials, API keys, or secret tokens in a secure and private location, away from version control.

## Contributing
- Contributions to this project are welcome! If you encounter any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please open an issue or submit a pull request. For major changes, please discuss them first in the project's issue tracker.

## License
- This project is licensed under the MIT License. You can find the full license text in the LICENSE file.
